---
title: Person of Interest S01E01 (2)
date: 2019-11-08 09:44:39
tags: 
    - poi
categories: [English]
---

<iframe frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" width=560 height=86 src="//music.163.com/outchain/player?type=3&id=1368201339&auto=0&height=66"></iframe>
疑犯追踪第一季第一集剧本精读(2)。  

<!-- More -->

>
>360.Lightly used.  
>361.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>22:28</small></font>**Steep** discount.  

**steep** stiːp  
adj.  陡峭的; 突然的; 急剧的; **过高的**; 过分的; 不合理的;  
v.  泡; 浸; 使…充满;

>362.Pop, what about this one?  
>363.Are you planning on buying that one?  
>364.I was just showing it to--  
>365.Put it back on the table  
>366.before somebody else kicks your ass.  
>367.Have you guys seen the men's room?  
>368.Hey, Anton.  
>369.Good to see you again.  
>370.You know this guy?  
>371.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>22:58</small></font>That's some pretty serious equipment.  
>372.Have you guys taken a safety course?  
>373.**Take you, for instance**.  

**take ... for instance**  
**以……为例子**

>374.You're holding that thing sideways.  
>375.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>23:05</small></font>You can't aim it,  
>376.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>23:06</small></font>And two, it'll **eject** a **shell casing** right into your face. 

**eject**  iˈdʒekt  
v.  驱逐; **喷出**; 喷射; 排出; (飞行员在飞机坠毁前从弹射座椅) 弹出;

**shell casing**  
**弹壳**

>377.I'm gonna **hold on to** these  

**hold on to**
**保存**

>378.while you guys get some more practice.  
>379.Have a nice day.  
>380.Who the hell was that?  
>381.Reese?  
>382.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>23:46</small></font>I got a signal from your phone.  
>383.Tell me you found Michael Pope.  
>384.He's the only one who knows who's coming after Hansen.  
>385.I found him, but somebody else found him first.  
>386.Listen.  
>387.Oh, Mikey.  
>388.You were gonna tell him all about us.  
>389.Weren't you? Hmm?  
>390.Head **uptown**.  

**uptown**  ˌʌpˈtaʊn  
adv.  离开市中心; **在(或向)市郊**;  
adj.  在(或向)市郊住宅区的; 市郊住宅区的; 富人区的;

>391.Are you hearing this?  
>392.97th and Riverside.  
>393.Step on it.  
>394.We're gonna put a couple in the back of his head.  
>395.Make it look like a gang thing.  
>396.You gotta do something.  
>397.Relax.  
>398.I'm on it.  
>399.Keep the change.  
>400.You're crazy.  
>401.We're both dead now.  
>402.Do you know who they are?  
>403.I do now.  
>404.Cops. Come on.  
>405.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>25:38</small></font>What exactly have you gotten me into?  
>406.I don't know.  
>407.That's the whole point.  
>408.I hired you to help me figure that out.  
>409.I think we're up against a group of corrupt cops.  
>410.Stills is **narcotics**.  

**narcotics** nɑːrˈkɑːtɪk  
n.  **致幻毒品**; 镇静剂; 麻醉药;  
adj.  致幻的; 麻醉的; 催眠的;

>411.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>25:51</small></font>Him and his men get word of deals.  
>412.They steal the drugs, the cash,  
>413.And they kill all the witnesses.  
>414.And they get Fusco to **frame up** guys like Lawrence Pope  

**frame up**  ˈfreɪm ʌp  
给……装上框；**诬陷**;

>415.for the murders.  
>416.Exactly.  
>417.I think their next target is Hansen.  
>418.But I don't know for certain.  
>419.Hell, I don't know anything for certain,  
>420.because you won't tell me  
>421.where you're getting your information.  
>422.When the towers came down,  
>423.you were in a hotel in Mexico.  
>424.I was here.  
>425.I was working.  
>426.Didn't even know about the attacks until that evening.  
>427.You see, Mr. Reese, until that day,  
>428.I had spent **the better** part of my life making myself very rich.  

**the better**  
越快越好; **越多越好;**

>429.Suddenly all that money didn't seem to **amount to** much.  

**amount to**  
**等同;** 接近; 总计;

>430.After the attacks,  
>431.The government gave itself the power to read every email,  
>432.listen to every cell phone,  
>433.but they needed something that could **sort through** it all,  

**sort through**  
整理; **分类;**

>434.something that could pick the terrorists  
>435.out of the general population before they could act.  
>436.The public wanted to be protected,  
>437.they just didn't want to know how they were being protected.  
>438.So when they finally got a system that worked,  
>439.they kept it secret.  
>440.So how do you know about it?  
>441.I built it.  
>442.But there was a problem with this machine.  
>443.I had built it to prevent the next 9/11.  
>444.But it was seeing all sorts of crimes.  
>445.So I had to teach the machine  
>446.to divide the things it saw into two lists:  
>447.Relevant and irrelevant.  
>448.Events that would cause massive loss of life were relevant,  
>449.so those would be **passed along** to the NSA or the FBI.  

**pass along**  
**传递给**

>450.And the irrelevant information?  
>451.Every night at midnight, the machine erases it.  
>452.`It was only later` that I realized my mistake.  

`It is only later`  
`太晚了才`

>453.That irrelevant list was **eating away at** me.  

**eat away at**  
**逐渐毁掉；** 侵蚀；损耗；

>454.So where's the machine now?  
>455.What, the drives? Who knows?  
>456.Government facility somewhere.  
>457.But the machine?  
>458.The machine is everywhere.  
>459.Watching us with 10,000 eyes.  
>460.Listening with a million ears.  
>461.What did I tell you about sending email?  
>462.Three weeks, you could practically move in.  
>463.Never put anything in an email you cannot own.  
>464.You gave yourself a way to communicate with it?  
>465.I was building the government a tool of unimaginable power.  
>466.I thought maybe an off switch would come in handy.  
>467.So I built myself a back door into it.  
>468.To access the irrelevant list.  
>469.Just a social security number.  
>470.If anyone ever found out,  
>471.I'd lose access so...  
>472.Nine digits, that's all we get.  
>473.And we have no idea why it picked Diane Hansen.  
>474.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>28:56</small></font>It wouldn't be steering us toward her  
>475.if it wasn't seeing something.  
>476.But I don't know if I can protect Hansen.  
>477.I can't see the whole picture.  
>478.I offered you a job, Mr. Reese.  
>479.I never `said it would be` easy.  

`would do`
`过去将来时`

>480.- Hey, Carter. - yeah?  
>481.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>29:19</small></font>You hear about your pal Anton?  
>482.No.  
>483.Him and his father tried to buy some guns.  
>484.Wound up getting shot with their own **merchandise**.  

**merchandise** ˈmɜːrtʃəndaɪs  
n. **商品**; 相关商品; 指定商品;
v. 推销; (运用广告等) 销售;

>485.Are they dead?  
>486.Nope. Embarrassed enough.  
>487.They got **taken out** by one guy in a suit.  

**take out**  
**去除**; 取得; 邀请…外出;

>488.Reese? I have bad news.  
>489.Lawrence Pope **was stabbed** to death last night in his cell.  

**be stabbed**
**被刺伤**

>490.What?  
>491.They're trying to **cover their tracks**.  

**cover one's track**
**掩盖**

>492.Hansen must be next.  
>493.You wanted to meet?  
>494.Remsen and avenue D in Canarsie. 20 minutes.  
>495.Finch.  
>496.It's happening now.  
>497.Are you here?  
>498.Are you gonna keep me waiting, Stills?  
>499.We don't have time for this.  
>500.What's your problem?  
>501.Pope is dead.  
>502.The problem is Wheeler.  
>503.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>30:49</small></font>You idiot, he knows.  
>504.He knows about Pope and--and maybe even some of the others.  
>505.I can take care of the files at the office,  
>506.but you have to take care of Wheeler.  
>507.Tonight.  
>508.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>30:02</small></font>Hey, look what I found.  
>509.We got ourselves a **groupie**.  

**groupie** ˈɡruːpi  
n. 流行歌手迷(尤指少女);  
**注：此处引申为尾随者**

>510.Heavily armed, too.  
>511.You know this guy?  
>512.No.  
>513.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>31:19</small></font>You're not **law enforcement**.  

**law enforcement** lɔː ɪnˈfɔːrsmənt  
**执法**

>514.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>31:20</small></font>**Cartel** finally grow some stones?  

**cartel** kɑːˈtel  
n. **卡特尔，企业联盟(通过统一价格、防止竞争来增加共同利润)**  
**注：Lionel这句台词的翻译是：毒帮的人终于长了点脑子？**

>515.Send somebody to take care of us?  
>516.Who the hell are you?  
>517.Concerned... third party?  
>518.Take care of him.  
>519.And, uh, get rid of Wheeler tonight.  
>520.Make it look clean.  
>521.Hey, Stills.  
>522.You **screw this up**,  

**screw up**
眯起（眼睛）; 扭曲（面部）; 把（纸）揉成一团; **弄糟**; 毁坏;

>523.I won't let it get to me.  
>524.I'll take care of you just like I took care of Pope.  
>525.I can look after myself.  
>526.You know that.  
>527.Nice spot.  
>528.It's Oyster bay.  
>529.Glad you like it.  
>530.You're gonna be here a long, long time.  
>531.I'm curious.  
>532.Was there a point where you knew you'd become a bad guy?  
>533.Woke up one morning, realized I was paid  
>534.to guard a bunch of jerks from Wall Street  
>535.who were robbing everybody blind.  
>536.They're stealing more than my annual salary in a afternoon.  
>537.So I said, "What the hell?"  
>538.I don't believe you.  
>539.See, I've been watching you, Lionel.  
>540.Your heart's not really into it.  
>541.Now, Stills, he does it for money.  
>542.But I think you do it because you're loyal.  
>543.What's the difference?  
>544.It's why I'm gonna let you live.  
>545.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>33:13</small></font>Yeah, I'm considering **sticking around** New York for a while.  

**stick around**  
**驻留**  

>546.If I do, I'm gonna need someone **on the inside**,  

**on the inside**  
**处于集团（组织）内部因而知内情;** 使用内车道;  

>547.And you might **come in handy**.  

**come in handy**  
**派上用场;**

>548.So I'm working for you now, huh?  
>549.That's right.  
>550.But I've got two rules.  
>551.One, you **so much as** hurt anybody,  

**so much as**
与其说是…不如说是…; **甚至**; 竟然;

>552.and I'll kill you.  
>553.I don't particularly like killing people,  
>554.but I'm very good at it.  
>555.And two...  
>556.you have to be more careful.  
>557.For instance, if you're gonna put someone  
>558.in the backseat of your car,  
>559.You have to search them properly.  
>560.No, please.  
>561.What are you doing?  
>562.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>34:36</small></font>You have your vest on, officer?  
>563.Yeah.  
>564.Where the hell have you--  
>565.There's no time. We were wrong.  
>566.Hansen isn't the target.  
>567.She's the **ringleader**.  

**ringleader** ˈrɪŋliːdər  
n. 头目; **元凶**;  

>568.They're going after Wheeler. Tonight.  
>569.Wheeler's up there.  
>570.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>35:30</small></font>He heads to the gym most nights.  
>571.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>35:32</small></font>I got Doyle upstairs staking him out.  
>572.The place is a dump.  
>573.There's no doorman, no cameras, nobody.  
>574.We'll take him in the **lobby**.  

**lobby** ˈlɑːbi  
n. **(公共建筑物进口处的) 门厅，前厅，大厅**; (英国议会的) 民众接待厅; (就某问题企图影响从政者的) 游说团体;  
v. 游说(从政者或政府);

>575.Soon as it's done, we take the shooter out.  
>576.Give him a block and then take him out.  
>577.Head shots this time, you understand?  
>578.Yeah, yeah, yeah.  
>579.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>35:44</small></font>Get our friend out of the trunk.  
>580.Who is this guy?  
>581.Some ex-con Wheeler put away.  
>582.Azarello, lights.  
>583.Doyle, talk to me.  
>584.He's coming out now.  
>585.Come on, Henry, let's go.  
>586.Wait.  
>587.Show me that basketball of yours. Let's go, come on.  
>588.Damn, he's got his kid with him.  
>589.What a waste.  
>590.Henry, watch out.  
>591.You're about to kill a man...  
>592.and his son.  
>593.Please.  
>594.Please don't do this.  
>595.Drop your weapon.  
>596.That isn't true actually.  
>597.If you keep working on it,  
>598.if you keep throwing the ball like that,  
>599.you'll be able to throw that fast.  
>600.- Really? - Absolutely.  
>601.Let him go.  
>602.I can't do that.  
>603.I let him go, my friends and I go to jail.  
>604.Drag your friend outside  
>605.and take him to the hospital.  
>606.Right now.  
>607.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>38:00</small></font>I think I kill you and your friend here.  
>608.Make it look like you killed each other.  
>609.Then, just because you **pissed me off**...  

**piss sb. off**  
**惹某人生气**

>610.I'm gonna kill your family.  
>611.And all your friends.  
>612.I don't have any friends.  
>613.I don't have any family left either.  
>614.Went around the world looking for bad guys.  
>615.But there were plenty of you right here all along.  
>616.So now, essentially,  
>617.you're telling us you couldn't see what was happening  
>618.in the parking lot at all.  
>619.I'm done, your honor.  
>620.Ms. Hansen?  
>621.The state isn't paying you by the hour, counselor.  
>622.Why don't we **have** the **defendant** **tell** you in her own words?  

**defendent** dɪˈfendənt  
n. **被告人**; 被告;

**have sb do sth**  
**让某人做某事**

>623.Let's listen to the 911 call she made.  
>624.And hey,  
>625.take care of Wheeler. Tonight.  
>626.Make it look clean. And Stills?  
>627.You screw this up,  
>628.I won't let it get to me.  
>629.I'll take care of you just like I took care of Pope.  
>630.I can look after myself.  
>631.You know that.  
>632.You ready to get to work, officer?  
>633.**I'm no good to** you. I'm dead.  

**be good to**  
**对…好**  
(注意介词不要记成for)

>634.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>39:43</small></font>Just a matter of time before the gangs get me.  
>635.Or IA.  
>636.No one knows you're involved.  
>637.I took care of that.  
>638.Besides, they'll be too busy looking for Stills.  
>639.The police will think he's run for it.  
>640.The gangs and the mob will think he's gone witness protection.  
>641.Is that where he is, witness protection?  
>642.No, Lionel.  
>643.He's in the trunk.  
>644.Only problem is,  
>645.I had to shoot him with your gun.  
>646.And you'd **have a hard time explaining** that one, so...  

**have a hard time doing**  
**做某事有困难**  
注：等同于**have trouble doing**

>647.You'll be taking another trip.  
>648.And I'm not coming along this time.  
>649.Where am I going?  
>650.Oyster bay.  
>651.Where no one's gonna find him for a long, long time.  
>652.I'll be in touch.  
>653.You have a decision to make.  
>654.The machine gave you another number.  
>655.The numbers never stop coming.  
>656.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>41:04</small></font>You should know that **up front**.  

**up front**  
在前面; **预先**; 前线; 在前台; 沙场乐;

>657.Why me?  
>658.`I've been watching` you for a long time, John.  

`have been doing`
`现在完成进行时`

>659.We have more in common than you might think.  
>660.The world thinks we're both dead, **for starters**.  

**for starters**  
作为开端; **首先**; 第一;

>661.You programmed the machine to delete those irrelevant numbers.  
>662.Now you're trying to save them.  
>663.What changed your mind?  
>664.Let's just say you're not the only one that's lost someone.  
>665.If you wanna leave,  
>666.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>41:39</small></font>I'll give you enough money to get as far as you need.  
>667.Disappear.  
>668.And if I stay?  
>669.Sooner or later both of us'll probably **wind up** dead.  

**wind up** waɪnd ʌp  
给（钟表等）上发条; 给…上弦; 完成; 停止; 关停，关闭（企业或其他组织）; **最终落得**; （以…） 告终; 摇上（车窗等）; 故意惹恼; 挑衅; 哄骗;

>670.Actually dead this time.  
>671.I said I'd tell you the truth.  
>672.Didn't say you'd like it.  
>673.Start talking, officer.  
>674.You think I'm gonna **rat on my friends**?  

**rat on sb** 
**背叛**;(尤指)告密出卖,对…背信弃义

>675.Please. You can tell the DA all about your **crooked** pals.  

**crooked** krʊkt  
adj. 不直的; 弯曲的; 扭曲的; **不诚实的**; 生(某人的)气;
v. (手指或手臂) 弯曲;

>676.I wanna know about him. The guy who came after you.  
>677.I don't know anything.  
>678.It was just some guy alone in a suit.  
>679.Yeah, well, you're gonna tell me  
>680.everything that you don't know about him  
>681.and where I can find him.
>

— End of Episode1 —

注：  

- <font color="#3385ff"><small>>>time</small></font>为听音失误点；  
- **bold**为生词或词组；  
- `code`为语法；  
- ~~del~~为疑似剧本录错处。  
