---
title: Person of Interest S01E01 (1)
date: 2019-10-07 21:49:45
tags: 
    - N3:English
categories: [English]
---

<iframe frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" width=560 height=86 src="//music.163.com/outchain/player?type=3&id=1368201339&auto=0&height=66"></iframe>
疑犯追踪第一季第一集剧本精读(1)。  
注：
- <font color="#3385ff"><small>>>time</small></font>为听音失误点；  
- **bold**为生词或词组；  
- `code`为语法。
- <del>del</del>为疑似剧本录错处

<!-- More -->

>1.When you find that one person who connects you to the world,  
>2.you become someone different,  
>3.someone better.  
>4.When that person is taken from you...  
>5.what do you become then?  
>6.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>0:34</small></font>  Whatever he wanna do, you know?
>7.What?  
>8.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>0:40</small></font>  Where'd you get that, in a **cereal** box?  

**cereal**  ˈsɪriəl  
n.  **谷物**

>9.You wanna see a real gun?  
>10.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>0:45</small></font>  Forget you.  
>11.Every little **punk** is carrying now, Anton.  

**punk**  pʌŋk  
n. 摇滚乐;**小流氓**

>12.That's why your father wanted us to take the car home.  
>13.Relax.  
>14.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>0:52</small></font> We're picking up new hardware next week.  
>15.Restore a little order.  
>16.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>0:56</small></font> Besides, when we take the car, we don't get to meet new friends.  
>17.Look at this guy.  
>18.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>1:17</small></font>  You didn't bring enough for the whole group.  
>19.I have to teach you about sharing.  
>20.I'll need a statement from the **bum**.  

**bum**   bʌm  
n. **流浪乞丐**  
v. 乞讨; 使不安  
adj. 劣质的; 错误的; 没用的  

>21.Which hospital did they take him to?  
>22.He **declined** treatment.  

**decline**	dɪˈklaɪn  
n. 减少，衰退  
v. 减少; 衰退; **谢绝**


>23.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>2:06</small></font>  We got video on it, though.  
>24.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>2:27</small></font>  You know, you `could have done` me a favor  

`could have done`  
虚拟语气：本可以

>25.and let those guys **land a couple more punches**.  

**land a couple punches**  
**打几拳**

>26.Question for you.  
>27.Looking at that tape,  
>28.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>2:36</small></font>  I'd say you spent some time **in <del>the</del> service**.  

**in service**  
**在服役**

>29.But you don't learn how to fight like that in the regular army.  
>30.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>2:43</small></font>  So what were you, special forces?  
>31.Delta?  
>32.I'm Carter. You didn't give us a name.  
>33.You know, it's funny.  
>34.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>2:56</small></font>  Seems like the only time you need a name now  
>35.is when you're in trouble.  
>36.So am I in trouble?  
>37.I don't know, you tell me.  
>38.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>3:06</small></font>  You're the one living on the street.  
>39.Yeah, **making that transition back** can be tough.  

**make the transition back**  
**转变回来**

>40.Some guys I knew got a little lost,  
>41.needed a little help adjusting.  
>42.You need some help?  
>43.Of course, some other guys I knew,  
>44.`they'd done` so many evil things,  

`had done`  
`过去完成时`

>45.they felt like they needed the punishment.  
>46.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>3:41</small></font>  That sound more like your story?  
>47.Excuse me for a second.  
>48.I'm here for my client.  
>49.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>4:11</small></font>  Your guy's prints were found in half a dozen crime scenes over the years.  
>50.Open **warrants** in four different countries.  

**warrant**	wɒrənt  
n. **逮捕令**; 凭单，许可证; 正当理由，依据  
v. 使有必要; 使正当

>51.Who you got down there, Carter,  
>52.the angel of death?  
>53.I appreciate the help, **counselor**.  

**counselor**  kaʊns(ə)lə  
n. **律师**；顾问；（使馆）参赞

>54.But who's **picking up... the tab**? 

**picking up the tab**  
**承担费用**

>55.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>4:32</small></font>  Our employer wants to have a word with you.  
>56.Do I **owe** you money?  
>57.'Cause I'm, uh...  
>58.running a little short at the moment.  
>59.You don't owe me anything, Mr. Reese.  
>60.That's the name you prefer, isn't it?  
>61.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>5:32</small></font>  I know you've had several.  
>62.Don't worry, I'm not gonna tell anybody about you.  
>63.You don't know anything about me.  
>64.I know exactly everything about you, Mr. Reese.  
>65.I know about the work you used to do for the government.  
>66.I know about the doubts you came to have about that work.  
>67.I know that the government, along with everybody else,  
>68.thinks you're dead.  
>69.I know you've spent the last couple of months  
>70.trying to drink yourself to death.  
>71.I know you're **contemplating** more efficient ways to do it.  

**contemplate** kɒntəmpleɪt  
v. **思忖**  

>72.So you see, knowledge is not my problem.  
>73.Doing something with that knowledge...  
>74.that's where you'd come in.  
>75.And you can call me Mr. Finch.  
>76.I think you and I can help one another.  
>77.I don't think you need a **psychiatrist**  

**psychiatrist**  saɪˈkaɪətrɪst  
n. **精神科医生**

>78.or a support group, pills...  
>79.What do I need?  
>80.You need a purpose.  
>81.More specifically, you need a job.  
>82.Eight million people.  
>83.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>6:48</small></font>  You know what they all have in common?  
>84.None of them knows what happens next.  
>85.Someone is murdered in New York city every 18 hours.  
>86.At the end of the day, one of these people will be gone.  
>87.Bad things happen to people every day.  
>88.You can't stop that.  
>89.What if you could?  
>90.Not the things that happen **in the heat of the moment**.  

**in the heat of the moment**  
**在一瞬间**

>91.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>7:11</small></font>  But so many crimes are planned days, weeks in advance.  
>92.What if you could stop those?  
>93.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>7:20</small></font>  I've got a list.  
>94.A list of people who are about to be involved in very bad situations.  
>95.Murders, kidnappings.  
>96.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>7:29</small></font>  The people that are on my list,  
>97.they have no idea that anything's about to happen to them.  
>98.Most of them are just ordinary people  
>99.- like her. - Thank you.  
>100.Her name is Diane Hansen,  
>101.and this week she's at the top of my list.  
>102.I don't know exactly what's going to happen  
>103.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>7:48</small></font>  or what her role in it is.  
>104.She might be the victim. She could be the **perpetrator**.  
>105.All I know is that she's involved.  
>106.I want you to follow her, figure out what's gonna to happen,  
>107.and stop it from happening.  
>108.So what do you think?  
>109.I think you're a bored rich guy.  
>110.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>8:12</small></font>  I think that woman's probably your ex-wife  
>111.or someone you rode in an elevator with once.  
>112.And either way, I think I'm done.  
>113.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>8:38</small></font>  Tonight police are looking for a homeless man for further questioning.  
>114.The unidentified man was originally believed  
>115.to be the victim of a violent **assault** on the subway.  

**assault**  əˈsɔːlt
n. 侵犯人身罪; 攻击; (向困难或危险事物发起的) 冲击
v. **袭击**; 使(感官)难受

>116.But now police consider the man  
>117.a **person of interest** in a number of crimes nationwide.  
>118.Hey, sweetheart, what's wrong?  
>119.Jess, what's wrong?  
>120.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>9:30</small></font>  You need to understand, Mr. Reese,  
>121.the information I have is incomplete,  
>122.but it's never wrong.  
>123.You need to know what it would be like  
>124.to be forced to listen to someone get murdered,  
>125.and not be able to do anything about it.  
>126.One three eight dot seven X-Ray.  
>127.12 August, 2008. 1:37 a.m.  
>128.Too late.  
>129.This recording is three years old.  
>130.A woman murdered in this room by her husband.  
>131.For the insurance.  
>132.You were too late for her.  
>133.Just like you were too late for your friend Jessica.  
>134.You were halfway around the world when she was killed.  
>135.What the hell do you know about it?  
>136.It's the truth.  
>137.You left the government because they lied to you  
>138.I never will.  
>139.I think all you ever wanted to do was protect people.  
>140.It's a wire-tap recording.  
>141.NSA or FISA. Government.  
>142.But you're not government.  
>143.No, I'm not.  
>144.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>11:19</small></font>  I guess you could call me a concerned third party.  
>145.You couldn't have saved this woman...  
>146.or your friend.  
>147.But you could have if you had have known in time.  
>148.And that's the other thing I'm offering you,  
>149.a chance to be there in time.  
>150.It's not too late for her.  
>151.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>11:44</small></font>  You could help me stop what's about to happen.  
>152.The question is, will you?  
>153.What is this place?  
>154.The decline of western civilization.  
>155.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>12:13</small></font>  The city closed half its libraries.  
>156.Budget cuts.  
>157.This building was sold to a bank that I control,  
>158.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>12:23</small></font>  which **promptly** declared bankruptcy.  

**promptly** ˈprɒmptli  
adv. 迅速地; **立即**; 及时地; 准时地

>159.So the property's **in a kind of limbo**.  

**in limbo**  
心神不定; 悬而未决; **（法律边缘的）灰色地带**

>160.It doesn't exist.  
>161.Neither do you. I did a little digging.  
>162.I recognize, Mr. Reese, that there's a **disparity**  

**disparity** dɪˈspærəti  
n. **(尤指因不公正对待引起的) 不同，不等**

>163.between how much I know about you and how much you know about me.  
>164.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>12:40</small></font>  I know you'll be trying to close that gap as quickly as possible.  
>165.But I should tell you I'm a really private person.  
>166.Drivers licenses... credit cards.  
>167.Six cover identities.  
>168.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>12:56</small></font>  Funds to be **replenished** through a **proxy** corporation.  

**replenish**  rɪˈplenɪʃ  
v. **补充**; 重新装满  

**proxy**  ˈprɑːksi  
n. **代理人**; (测算用的) 代替物，指标;

>169.Just like when you were with the agency.  
>170.When I was with the agency  
>171.I knew who was picking up the tab.  
>172.This is your list?  
>173.The list?  
>174.Yeah.  
>175.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>13:14</small></font>  But you don't get names, do you?  
>176.These are social security numbers.  
>177.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>13:21</small></font>  And each of them **map out** to a violent crime.  

**map out**  
设计; 计划

>178.And all of these numbers represent...  
>179.Lost chances.  
>180.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>13:30</small></font>  I could be a lot more help to you  
>181.if you just tell me where you're getting these numbers.  
>182.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>12:33</small></font>  It doesn't really matter where I get the numbers.  
>183.What you need to know is that the next number that's up  
>184.is hers.  
>185.Diane Hansen.  
>186.Grew up in **Detroit**.  

**Detroit** dɪˈtrɔɪt  
n. **底特律**

>187.Moved to the city after law school.  
>188.Single.  
>189.- She have any enemies? - One or two.  
>190.She's an assistant **district** **attorney**.  

**district** ˈdɪstrɪkt
n. **地区**  

**attorney**  əˈtɜːrni  
n. **律师**; (业务或法律事务上的) 代理人;

>191.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>13:59</small></font>  Best conviction record in her department.  
>192.We have no idea when this bad thing might happen, huh?  
>193.Could be in a week. Could be five minutes.  
>194.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>14:07</small></font>  That's why we need to learn as much as we can about her.  
>195.How do you intend to begin?  
>196.The slow way.  
>197.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>14:14</small></font>  **Cultivate** a relationship  

**cultivate** ˈkʌltɪveɪt  
v. 耕作; 种植; 培育; **结交(朋友)**; 获得(支持)

>198.to allow you to earn the asset's trust.  
>199.And the fast way?  
>200.First, you break into their home  
>201.and **go through** all their stuff.  

**go through**  
经历; **翻阅**; 整理; 彻查  
（法律、协议等） 被通过; （正式决定） 被批准;

>202.Email, financial records, personal effects.  
>203.Then you hack into their cell phone.  
>204.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>14:42</small></font>  As long as it's charged and has signal,  
>205.you can use the GPS to track them.  
>206.You can use the microphone to **listen into** their conversations  

**listen into**  
**听广播**

>207.whether they're talking on the phone or not.  
>208.Hi, mom. I'm sorry I haven't called you back...  
>209.Third step--  
>210.you need picture.  
>211.A wireless camera, and you can keep an eye on them from anywhere.  
>212.I know you're worried. I know. I'm fine.  
>213.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:07</small></font>  It is a tough job. But I can look after myself.  
>214.You know that.  
>215.She's tough, but she's scared about something.  
>216.Given Hansen's job,  
>217.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:18</small></font>  we've got hundreds of people who could be holding a **grudge**.  

**grudge**  ɡrʌdʒ  
n. **怨恨**
v. 勉强做; 不情愿地给; 吝惜; 认为…不应得到;


>218.I cut the list to two.  
>219.The first is Wheeler, her co-counselor.  
>220.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:26</small></font>  They dated for a few months last year.  
>221.She **broke things off**.  

break off  
折断; （使） 断开; 突然中止; **终止（关系）**

>222.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:31</small></font>  You got time to talk? Maybe I can buy you dinner.  
>223.I'm busy. Another time?  
>224.Is something wrong?  
>225.I've been noticing lately--  
>226.No, I'm fine, thank you. Thanks.  
>227.And 40% of murders involve  
>228.some kind of romantic relationship.  
>229.Wheeler's divorced. One kid.  
>230.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:45</small></font>  Partial **custody**, **alimony**. Career **stalled**.  

**custody** ˈkʌstədi  
n. 监护; 保管; **监护权**; (尤指在候审时的) 拘留，拘押，羁押

**alimony**  ˈælɪmoʊni
n. **(离婚后一方给另一方的) 生活费，扶养费**

**stall** stɔːl  
n. 货摊; 牲畜棚; (房间内的) 小隔间，淋浴室，洗手间  
v. (使) 熄火，抛锚; 故意拖延(以赢得时间); **停滞**

>231.The second person I'm looking into is Lawrence Pope.  
>232.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:54</small></font>  The man Hansen is currently **prosecuting**.  

**prosecute**  ˈprɑːsɪkjuːt  
v. 起诉; 检举; **担任控方律师**; 继续从事(或参与)  

>233.Pope's on trial for  
>234.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>15:55</small></font>  killing his friends in a drug deal gone bad,  
>235.stole $1/2 million in cash.  
>236.Pope's **gang** may be targeting her for **reprisal**.  

**gang** ɡæŋ  
n. **帮派**  
v. 使结成一帮; 合伙攻击; 将（电气设备或机器）连接; 接合; 使成套排列

**reprisal** rɪˈpraɪzl  
n. **报复**

>237.When we got there, the scene was colorful.  
>238.Five dead.  
>239.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>16:07</small></font>  One of them had managed to crawl ten feet to a phone  
>240.to dial 911.  
>241.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>16:13</small></font>  Detective Fusco, when you interviewed Mr. Pope,  
>242.what did he tell you **in his defense**?  

**in defense of**  
**为...辩护**

>243.He said that if he'd have shot the poor **bastard**,  

**bastard** ˈbæstərd  
n. **杂种**; 麻烦事;


>244.he would have shot him in the head.  
>245.Quote, "Same as I always do," Unquote.  
>246.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>16:21</small></font>  He said he wouldn't have left him there half-dead,  
>247.**blubbering** for his girlfriend.  

**blubber** ˈblʌbər  
n. 鲸脂; 海兽脂  
v. **大声哭**

>248.No more questions, your Honor.  
>249.Detective...  
>250.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>16:57</small></font>  You **went a little off script** in your **testimony**.  

**go off script**  
**偏离脚本**

**testimony**  ˈtestɪmoʊni  
n. 证据; 证明; **证词**

>251.You never told me about that conversation,  
>252.And it could clear Pope's name.  
>253.What's it matter? We got the guy.  
>254.It matters because it's my job to make absolutely sure  
>255.that the wrong people don't go to jail.  
>256.Do you remember?  
>257.Excuse me, I thought we were on the same team.  
>258.Something's gone wrong with her case.  
>259.Hansen's on the move.  
>260.She's phoning **county lockup**,  

**county lockup**  
州监狱

>261.arranging a meeting with Pope...alone.  
>262.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>17:13</small></font>  Isn't my lawyer supposed to be here for this?  
>263.I can call him if you want,  
>264.but the reason I'm here is  
>265.I don't think you murdered those people.  
>266.I think somebody else was in the house  
>267.when that 911 call was made.  
>268.Somebody who told you what was said,  
>269.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>17:25</small></font>  which means you weren't there.  
>270.Is it somebody you're trying to protect?  
>271.You gonna help me? Is that it?  
>272.The person who knows what happened that night  
>273.must be somebody you care about.  
>274.Is it your younger brother Michael?  
>275.Pope's got a brother. It's in his case file.  
>276.Got it.  
>277.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>17:41</small></font>  Did he see the real killers?  
>278.You should leave this alone, lady.  
>279.I can do the time.  
>280.These people are evil, killing when they want.  
>281.And they're protected from **on high**.  

**on high**  
**由上级下达的,来自高层的**

>282.You keep asking questions, they'll kill me  
>283.and my brother, and probably you too.  
>284.Whoever these people are, you can trust me.  
>285.We'll take care of you and your brother.  
>286.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>17:58</small></font>  If the killers are out there, I'm gonna find them,  
>287.whether you help me or not.  
>288.It's my job. Now, why don't you--  
>289.Bitch, you keep your damn mouth shut,  
>290.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>18:07</small></font>  or I'll shut it for you!  
>291.I'm fine.  
>292.Okay. She's okay. She's okay.  
>293.Finch, you were right about Hansen.  
>294.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>18:20</small></font>  Whoever **framed** Pope will be coming after her,  

**frame** freɪm  
n. 框架，支架; 眼镜框  
v. 给…做框; 给…镶边; **作伪证陷害**; 拟订 


>295.And only Pope's brother Michael knows who they are.  
>296.Hi, mom, it's Jessica.  
>297.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>18:34</small></font>  I'm just **down in** Mexico with Cindy,  

**down in**  
下到

>298.and I'll be back tomorrow. Okay?  
>299.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>18:38</small></font>  - Talk soon. Bye. - Cindy?  
>300.- I look like a Cindy? - yeah.  
>301.I didn't tell her about us yet.  
>302.It's been six months.  
>303.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>18:54</small></font>  I wish this weekend could **go on** forever.  

**go on**  
**持续**

>304.It already has. It's Tuesday.  
>305.Yes, which means that you have to go back to the base,  
>306.and I'm not gonna see you again for two weeks,  
>307.which I hate.  
>308.Then ask me to stay, and I will.  
>309.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>19:13</small></font>  I'll quit. I'll quit.  
>310.- Okay. - I'll quit.  
>311.- Then quit. - I already did.  
>312.- What? - yeah.  
>313.I didn't want to take the chance  
>314.that you wouldn't be here when I got back.  
>315.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>19:35</small></font>  But first, we need some more **tequila**.  

**tequila** təˈkiːlə  
n. **龙舌兰酒**

>316.World Trade Center in Manhattan.  
>317.Hey, sweetheart, what's wrong?  
>318.Jess...what's wrong?  
>319.It's new york. I don't know. I don't know.  
>320.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>19:55</small></font>  Something's happened this morning.  
>321.Is it a **plane crash**?  
>322.I think it's two. I think it's two planes.  
>323.All right, thanks.  
>324.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>20:19</small></font>  You went to see Pope last night?  
>325.Yeah. I gave him one more chance  
>326.to turn in his **accomplice**, cut a deal.  

**accomplice** əˈkʌmplɪs  
n. **共犯**

>327.He give you anything?  
>328.No. As usual.  
>329.I'm, uh--I'm late.  
>330.She's trying to track down Pope's brother Michael.  
>331.He can ID the real killers.  
>332.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>20:37</small></font>  And she's **stonewalling** Wheeler.  

**stonewall** ˈstəʊnwɔːl  
v. **防守挡击**(政治上指通过沉默或冗长发言等手段阻碍议事或拖延决议)

>333.What, does she think he's involved?  
>334.Remember, Pope said they were protected from on high.  
>335.Wait a second.  
>336.**Turns out** there's a good reason she doesn't trust Wheeler.  
>337.He might be working with the killers.  
>338.And they're after Michael Pope.  
>339.We better get to this kid before someone else does.  
>340.Michael...can I talk to you for a second?  
>341.I've got a message from your brother.  
>342.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>21:40</small></font>  - You don't know my brother. - **Not exactly**.  
>343.But I know what you saw.  
>344.I'm not the only one looking for you.  
>345.You need to come with me.  
>346.Help me.  
>347.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>21:54</small></font>  This man is trying to put me in a taxi cab with him!  
>348.He's trying to take pictures of me.  
>349.What's going on?  
>350.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>21:59</small></font>  How you doing?  
>351.Michael Pope's still on the subway.  
>352.When he **comes up for air**,  

**come up for air**
游上来吸取空气; **为了持续做某事而休息一会儿**  

>353.you can use the GPS on your phone to find him.  
>354.<font color="#3385ff"><small>>>22:14</small></font>  If Pope's right about these guys,  
>355.I'm gonna need a hell of a lot more than a cell phone.  
>356.About that, I don't like **firearms** very much.  

**firearm** ˈfaɪərɑːrm  
n. **(便携式的) 枪**

>357.Well, neither do I,  
>358.But if someone has to have them, I'd rather it was me.  
>359.Besides, my friend from the subway has a line on some.
>

— To Be Continued —